 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                     LWO - StarLancer Object Converter                     |
|                               First Release                               |
|  By Mario "HCl" Brito  (mbrito@student.dei.uc.pt or mario_brito@clix.pt)  |
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


- What this program does/doesn't do

This program takes a Lightwave model and converts it to SHP format, which
StarLancer can read. This is a first release (or "test release"); although
it's completely functional, i'm releasing this as a DOS program in hope of
getting some early feedback from 3D artists regarding if this program is 
(or isn't) suitable to the task at hand. The next version of this program 
will work under Windows (with a very nice interface) and will be a more 
generic converter: it will eventually read some other games file formats 
(Wing Commander and Homeworld, for example) and some other 3D formats.
It won't be ready any time soon tho...

The first thing to keep in mind is that this program will only convert LWOB
files, it cannot handle LWLO (Layered objects) or LWO2, at least not yet. 
LWOB conversion was tested with several models available on the Buda5 project
(http://mods.firstones.com/buda5).

The program can handle 3 types of mapping: Planar, Cylindrical and Spherical.
From what i've read (i do not own Lightwave), there are other mappings:
Marble, Grid, Dots, etc. These are unsupported. Also, only 2 texture
parameters are supported: size and center. All other parameters (such as 
fallout and velocity) will be ignored.

Also, it can only handle 3 and 4-sided faces. All other faces (pentagons, 
hexagons, etc) will be ignored. Detail polygons will also be ignored.
Another limitation (although from StarLancer) is number of textures: a SHP
file can have a maximum of 20 textures and the poly count should be kept
low (~500 polygons is ok, and SL will probably handle no more than 1000).
Keep in mind that 4-sided faces will be triangulated, which means that each
quad will be divided into 2 triangles.





- More about mapping types

My advice is that you use Planar mapping whenever possible: it was tested
with the StarFury conversion (available on LancersReactor) and the Earth
Alliance Atmospheric Shuttle and seems to be working fine. 

Cylindrical mapping was tested with a couple other Buda5 models, but seem
somewhat inacurate. The texture-coordinates generation routines seem fine, 
which is strange, considering the results.

Spherical mapping was implemented but not tested, as i couldn't find any
model that used it, so i honestly don't know if it's working.

Feedback would be apreciated, especially on Cylindrical and Spherical
mapping.






- Usage

Simple enough: lwo2sl <lwo file>
It will generate out.shp, which is the converted SHP file. Use SLEdit to
import the textures into StarLancer (you may have to flip the textures
vertically before importing them) and either SLEdit or SLTool to arm the
ship. Afterwards create new Stats either with Warthog's StatEdit or SLEdit.

Remember, textures should be 256x256 BMPs, loaded with the included PAL file.

LWO2SL also generates 3 DOC files and command line status reporting what it's
doing, both of which i used for debugging. I didn't bother to remove these,
as they might still be useful to identify potential problems.






- Script??

I can imagine a lot of people nodding in disaproval, but this can be a useful
feature. The script is executed during conversion process, and it's used to 
rotate the ship and make sure it's oriented correctly (you don't want your 
ship flying, say, backwards). If you prefer to rotate your ship in Lightwave
instead of messing with it, be my guest, the result will be the same (I 
didn't have this option, since i don't own LightWave).

Basically, the principle is: you have a LightWave ship and it's not
oriented correctly (it's flying sideways, for example). You'll have to rotate
the ship to make it's orientation correct. The commands are:

x <angle in degrees> - rotates the ship around the x axis 
y <angle in degrees> - rotates the ship around the y axis 
z <angle in degrees> - rotates the ship around the z axis 
n 1 - negates the X axis (useful if textures look mirrored and the ship is
      symetrical in SL)
e - end of script

And that's it, i would bet this is the simplest possible script in existance.

As an example, for the Buda5 StarFury conversion, the ship was flying upside
down and the texture appeared mirrored. I created the following script that
fixed the ship:

z 180
n 1
e

(the script file is script.dat, btw)

In short, the 180 degrees rotation around the Z axis flipped the ship the
right way (it was upside down) and negating the X axis made the texture
look right (the EA symbol on top was "mirrored" and on the left, while on the
Buda5 site a screenshot showed it on the right side, displayed correctly).
"n 1" really inverted the model's X axis, but since the ship is symmetrical
you can't really tell. "e" marks the end (required).


By the way, the StarLancer coordinate system is:

Positive Z - "Ahead" of you
Positive Y - points down
Positive X - points right





- Auto-scaling

This version of the converter automatically scales the ship to be as large
as the Predator (roughly). You can't change this. The next version (the
Windows one) will handle both scaling and rotating visually (like SLTool),
which means you'll have more control (the script will also disappear, as a
consequence).

EOF
--
