MilkShape SHP Exporter
----------------------



How to use it:
--------------

To install the plugin, just copy the DLL to the MilkShape directory. It should load 
automatically when you start MilkShape.

This Exporter plugin provides an easy way to save a 3D model from MilkShape in SHP format.
A basic SHP structure is created with the 3D data, much like with 3ds2sl. The only differences
between 3ds2sl and this plugin is that you don't have to save to 3DS format first (and then
convert to SHP format) and unlike 3ds2sl the conversion process doesn't merge all meshes into
one, which may be useful if you want each mesh to be a capship component.

Like the latest 3ds2sl, the MilkShape plugin allows the use of special effects, such as
translucent ("glass") surfaces. This is defined when you write the material name you want to
use on that surface. Here are the possible effects:

00 - shaded white
01 - solid wireframe
02 - bright glass without texture
03 - regular texture with no light shading
04 - bright glass look with texturing
05 - regular texture - but bright with no shading
06 - regular texture - except no reflective light effect
07 - regular texture
08 - regular texture - translucent
09 - bright white
10 - regular texture - translucent
11 - bright white
12 - bright white
13 - bright white
14 - bright white
15 - bright white

As an example, if you have a material that is named "hull" and want it to be translucent,
you start the material name with a ) followed by the 2 numbers of the effect you want to use,
for example, 08. Afterwards, you can put any name you want. The material name becomes:
")08hull". Any mesh that uses this material will be translucent.




Known Issues with the special effects:
--------------------------------------

If you use effects 00, 01, 02 or 03, it's possible that the game will crash when entering the
briefing room. This is a StarLancer issue, since the model will work fine when you skip the 
briefing phase with the "potato" cheat. To fix this, load SLTool v1.4, select the component
that uses the special effect and check the "Dummy Triangle" option. The briefing room
apparently doesn't like meshes whose triangles are all using these special effects, so adding
a Dummy Triangle (which is invisible and with no special effects defined) will fix the problem.

This isn't likely to happen with 3ds2sl: since your model will most likely not be fully
translucent and it merges all meshes into one, there will be other triangles that use no
special effect, so the briefing room won't malfunction.


ATTENTION: If you need to define a bounding box (capship collision structure) in SLTool but
also need a Dummy Triangle in the mesh, define the bounding box first! Only check the "Dummy
Triangle" option afterwards.


Feedback is apreciated:)

Mario "HCl" Brito
mbrito@student.dei.uc.pt